---
layout: post
title:  REST - PUT vs POSt
date:   2021-06-10 15:01:35 +0300
image:  https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/77090941/119234172-69717180-bb67-11eb-8acc-f687aa97de80.jpg
tags:   Style
---

It has been observed that many people struggle to choose between HTTP PUT vs. POST methods when desisning a system. Though, RFC 2616 has been very clear in differentiating between the two - yet complex wordings are a source of confusion for many of us. Let's try to solve the puzzle when to use PUT or POST

Let's compare them for better understanding

PUT|POST|
|---|---
RFC-2616 clearly mention that PUT method requests for the enclosed entity be stored under the supplied Request_URI. if the Request_URI refers to an already existing resource - an update operation will happen, otherwise create operation should happen if Request_URI is a valid resource URI(assuming client is allowed to determine resource identifier)  > PUT/questions/{question-id} | The POST method is used to request that the origin server accept the entity enclosed in the request as a new subordinate of the resource identified by the Request-URI in the Request_Line. It essentially means that POST request_URI should be of a collection URI > POST/questions
PUT method is IDEMPOTENT. so if you send retry a request multiple times, that should be equivalent to single request modification | POST is NOT IDEMPOTENT. SO if you retry the request N times, you will end up having N resources with N different URIs created on server.
Use PUT when you want to modify a singular resource which is already a part of resources collection. PUT replaces the resource in its entirety. Use PATCH if request updates part of the resource. | Use POST when you want to add a child resource under recources collection
Though PUT is IDEMPOTENT, we shall not cache it's response | Responses to this method are not cacheable, unless the response includes appropriate Cache-Control or Expires header fields. However, the 303(See Other) response can be used to direct the user agent to retrieve a cacheable resource.
Generally, in practice, always use PUT for UPDATE operations | Always usr POST for CREATE operations

* PUT vs POST : An Example
Let's say we are designing a network application. Let's list down few URIs and their purpose to get better understanding when to use POST and when to use PUT operations
```
GET /device-management/devices:Get all divices
POST /device-management/devices:Create a new device

GET /device-management/devices/{id}:Get the device information identified by "id"
POST /device-management/devices/{id}:Update the device information identified by "id"
DELETE / device-management/devices/{id}: Delete device by "id"

```