---
layout: post
title:  재귀함수 (Recursion)
date:   2021-06-15 15:01:35 +0300
image:  https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/77090941/119234172-69717180-bb67-11eb-8acc-f687aa97de80.jpg
tags:   Style
---
### What is Recursion?
In computer science, recursion is a method of solving a problem where the solution depends on solutions to smaller instances fo the same problem. Such problems can generally be solved by  iteration, but this needs to identify and index the smaller instances at programming time. Recursion solves such recursive problems by using functions that ***call themselves*** from within their own code. 
- Wikipedia-

> The power of recursion evidently lies in the possibility of defining an infinite set of objects by a finite statement. In the same manner, an infinite number of computations can be described by a finite recursive problem, even if this program contains no explicit repetitions. - Niklaus Wirth, Algorithms-

```js
function loop(x){
    if(x>=10)   // "x >= 10" is the exit condition (equivalent to "!(x<10)")
         return;

        loop(x+1)  // the recursive call
}
loop(0)
```
- Compared to the function loop, each recursive call itself makes many recursive calls here.
- it is possible to convert any recursive algorithm to a non-recursive one, but the logic is often much more complex, and doing so requires the use of a stack
- In, fact recursion itself uses a stack: the function stack. the stack-like behavior can be seen in the following example

```js
function foo(i){
    if(i < 0) 
    return;
    console.log("begin: " + i);
    foo(i-1);
    console.log("end: "+ i);
}
foo(3)

// output:
// begin: 3
// 2
// 1
// 0
// end: 0
// 1
// 2
// 3

```

 Property  | Recursion | Iteration
---|---|---|
Definition| Function calls itself| A set of instructions repeatedly executed.
Application| For functions| For loop
Termination| Through base case, where there will be no function call| When the termination condition for the iterator ceases to be satisfied
Usage| Used when code size needs to be small, and time complexity is not an issue. | Used when time complexity needs to be balanced against an expanded  code size
Code Size| Smaller code size| Larger Code Size
Time Complexity| Very high(generally exponential) time complexity| Relatively lower time Complexity (generally polynominal-logarithmic)

* https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/difference-between-recursion-and-iteration/