---
layout: post
title:  Linux  Command
date:   2021-05-20 15:01:35 +0300
image:  https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/77090941/119234172-69717180-bb67-11eb-8acc-f687aa97de80.jpg
tags:   Style
---

## What i leard - Linux commands
### From -  https://www.hostinger.com/tutorials/linux-commands
1. pwd: find out the path of the current working directory. 
2. cd: navigate through the files and the directories.
3. ls: view the contents of your current working directory.
4. cat: list the contents of a file on the standard output.
5. cp: copy files from the current directory to a different directory.
6. mv: move files and also can rename files
7. nkdir: make a new directory 
8. touch: create a blank new file
9. rm: delete directories and the contents within them.
10. rmdir: delete a directory
11. locate: search command, you can search for a file even if you don't remember its exact name with **locate -i <file name>**
12. grep: search through all the text in a given file (grep blue <filename> - find word 'blue' in the file )
13. sudo: "superUser Do" this command enables you to perform tasks that require adminstrative or root permissions. 
14. df: get a report on the system's disk space usage.
15. du: check how much space a file or a directory takes
16. head: view the first lines of any text file. 
17. diff: compares the contents of two files line by line. After analyzing the files, it will output the lines that do not match.
18. chmod: change the read, write, and execute permissions of files and directories.
19. chown: enables you to change or transfer the ownership of a file to the specified username(ex. chown linuxUser file.ext)
20. ping: check your connectivity status to a server.
21. uname: print detailed information about your Linux system like the machine name, operating system, kernel, and so on 
22. wget: download files from the internet  
23. top: this command will display a list of running processes and how much CPU each process uses
24. history: review the commands you've entered before
25. echo: if you want to add the text, "Hello" into a file called name.txt you would type **echo Hello >> name.txt**
26. host: if you want to know the name of your host/network simply type hostname
  
---
### This is out-of-date to write down all the things but somethime it is really helpful so i just typed it  
